[CC-14560] Enable prioritization of discounts (#556)
spryker/spryker-docs: docs/scos/user/features/202108.0/promotions-discounts-feature-overview.md

![Cart rule](https://spryker.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docs/Features/Promotions+&+Discounts/Discount/Discount+Feature+Overview/cart-cart-rule.png)

See [Creating a Cart Rule](/docs/scos/user/back-office-user-guides/{{page.version}}/merchandising/discount/creating-cart-rules.html) to learn how a Back Office user can create a cart rule in the Back Office.

### Decision rule

A decision rule is a condition assigned to a discount that should be fulfilled for the discount to apply.

A discount can have one or more decision rules. Find an exemplary combination below:

| PARAMETER | RELATION OPERATOR | VALUE |
| --- | --- | --- |
| total-quantity | equal |  3 |
| day-of-week| equal | 5  |

In this case, the discount is applied if the cart contains 3 items and the purchase is made on the fifth day of the week (Friday).

Multiple decision rules form a query. A query is a request for information based on the defined parameters. In the Discount feature, a query requests information from a cart to check if it is eligible for the discount. By specifying decision rules, you define the parameters of the query.

> In the Back Office, you create decision rules in a Query Builder. The decision rules created in the Query Builder are transformed into a single query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Back Office, you create decision rules in a Query Builder. Query Builder transforms the decision rules into a single query.
```

### Discount threshold

> Threshold is a minimum number of items in cart that should fulfill all the specified decision rules for the discount to apply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Threshold is a minimum number of items in the cart that should fulfill all the specified decision rules for the discount to apply.
```

Author: If we have "the" before cart, then "that should fulfill" would refer to the cart, and not to the threshold, as intended.

The default value is *1* . It means that a discount is applied if at least one item fulfills the discount's decision rules.

> In the following example, the discount is applied if there are four items with the Intel Core processor in cart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, the discount is applied if there are four items with the Intel Core processor in the cart.
```

1. BUY5GET1 (100 priority): $100 - $3*1.00 or $3 = $97
2. SPICE10 (100 priority): $97 - $30*0.10 or $3.00 = $94
3. MEMBER5 (5000 priority): $94 - $94*0.05 or $4.70 = $89.30
4. STORE5 (5000 priority): $89.30 - $94*0.05 or $4.70 = $84.60

**Calculation as displayed in cart:**

Subtotal: $100.00

BUY5GET10: -$3.00
SPICE10: -$3.00
MEMBER5: -$4.70
STORE5: -$4.70

Grand total: $84.60

#### Scenario 3: Multiple discounts, both exclusive and non-exclusive.

Cart subtotal: $100

| DISCOUNT NAME|  DESCRIPTION|  DISCOUNT TYPE| DISCOUNT AMOUNT| DISCOUNT PRIORITY| EXCLUSIVENESS| NOTES|
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |--- |--- |
| BUY4GET1| Buy 4 baguettes, get one free|  Percentage| 100%| 100|  No| One baguette costs $3|
| SPICE10| 10% off spices| Percentage| 10%|  100|  No| $30 of spices|
| MEMBER5| 5% off for members| Percentage| 5%| 5000| Yes| |
| STORE5| 5% off storewide if you spend $50 or more|  Percentage| 5%| 9000| Yes| |

**Discounts applied in priority order:**

MEMBER5 (5000): $100 - $100*0.05 = $95

In the presence of exclusive discounts, all non-exclusive discounts are excluded.
Between the exclusive discounts, the discount with the higher priority is chosen.

> #### Scenario 4: Multiple non-exclusive, percentage discount calculation types. Executing discounts in priority order results in cart subtotal no longer satisfying conditions for one or more subsequent discounts.
> 
> Cart subtotal: €100
> 
> | DISCOUNT NAME|  DESCRIPTION|  DISCOUNT TYPE| DISCOUNT AMOUNT| DISCOUNT PRIORITY| EXCLUSIVENESS| NOTES|
> | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |--- |--- |
> | 50SOCKS|  50% off Nike socks| Percentage| 50%|  100|  No| Nike socks cost €40|
> | 15PANTS|  15% off all white pants|  Percentage| 15%|100|  No| White pants cost €60|
> | SAVE20| 20% off purchases over €100|  Percentage| 20%|  300|  No| |
> | SITE5|  5% off everything in the store| Percentage| 5%| 9999| No| |
> 
> **Discounts applied in priority order:**
> 
> 1. 50SOCKS (100 priority): €100 - €40*0.5 = €80
> 2. 15PANTS (100 priority): €80 - €60*0.15 = €71
> 3. SAVE20 (300 priority): No longer applies, because discounts with higher priorities have reduced the subtotal below the discount condition threshold of €100.
> 4. SITE5: (9999 priority): €71 - €3.55 = €67.45
> 
> #### Scenario 5: Non-exclusive, fixed amount and percentage discounts with the same priority values 
> 
> Cart subtotal: €100
> 
> | DISCOUNT NAME|  DESCRIPTION|  DISCOUNT TYPE| DISCOUNT AMOUNT| DISCOUNT PRIORITY| EXCLUSIVENESS|
> | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |--- |
> | 50SOCKS|  10% off Nike socks| Percentage| 10%|  100|  No| Nike socks cost €40|
> | 15PANTS|  Save €20 on all white pants|  Fixed amount| €20|100|  No| White pants cost €60|
> 
> **Discounts applied in priority order:**
> 
> 1. 50SOCKS (100 priority): €100 - €40*0.1 = €96
> 2. 15PANTS (100 priority): €96 - €20 = €76
> 
> 
> **Calculation as displayed in cart:**
> 
> Subtotal: €100.00
> 
> 50SOCKS: -€4
> 15PANTS: -€20.00
> 
> Grand total: €76.00
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

Author: I have commented this piece out, so we can use later, after the bug is fixed

#### Scenario 6: Exclusive and non-exclusive discounts without the priorities

Cart subtotal: €100

| DISCOUNT NAME  | DESCRIPTION| DISCOUNT TYPE | DISCOUNT AMOUNT | DISCOUNT PRIORITY|  EXCLUSIVENESS | NOTES |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |--- |--- |

> |50SOCKS | 10% off Nike socks | Percentage | 10% | |Exclusive | Nike socks cost €40 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|10SOCKS | 10% off Nike socks | Percentage | 10% | |Exclusive | Nike socks cost €40 |
```

> |15PANTS|Save €5 on all pants| Fixed amount | €5 | | Exclusive |  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|5PANTS|Save €5 on all pants| Fixed amount | €5 | | Exclusive |  |
```

> |SITE5|10% off everything in the store| Percentage | €10 | |  Non-exclusive | €10 | |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|SITE10|10% off everything in the store| Percentage | €10 | |  Non-exclusive | €10 | |
```

In the presence of exclusive discounts, all non-exclusive discounts are excluded.

> Since the remaining exclusive discounts do not have priorities and the discount 15PANTS providers more free value than the discount 50SOCKS, this discount is applied.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the remaining exclusive discounts do not have priorities and the discount 5PANTS provides more free value than the discount 10SOCKS, this discount is applied.
```

> Query String is a discount application type that uses [decision rules](#decision-rule) to dynamically define what products a discount applies to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Query String is a discount application type that uses [decision rules](#decision-rule) to dynamically determine which products qualify for discounts.
```

The discount in the example below applies to white products.
![Query collection](https://spryker.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docs/Features/Promotions+&+Discounts/Discount/Discount+Feature+Overview/collection-query.png)

The product selection based on the query string is dynamic:

> * If at some point, the color attribute of a product changes from white to anything else, the product is no longer eligible for a discount.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If, at some point, the color attribute of a product changes from white to anything else, the product is no longer eligible for a discount.
```

> * If at some point, a product receives the white color attribute, it becomes eligible for a discount.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If, at some point, a product receives the white color attribute, it becomes eligible for a discount.
```

### Promotional product

Promotional product is a discount application type that discounts a particular product at a set quantity, enabling "buy X, get Y" promotions.

> When a customer meets the conditions for a promotional product discount, a **Promotional products** section is displayed in the cart, allowing customers to add the available quantity of the discounted product to cart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a customer meets the conditions for a promotional product discount, a **Promotional products** section is displayed in the cart, allowing customers to add the available quantity of the discounted product to the cart.
```

![Discount calculation](https://spryker.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docs/Features/Promotions+&+Discounts/Discount/Discount+Feature+Overview/discount_calculation.png)

## Discount exclusiveness

Discount exclusiveness defines if a discount value of a discount can be combined with the discount value of other discounts in a single order.

A Back Office user defines calculation when [creating a voucher](/docs/scos/user/back-office-user-guides/{{page.version}}/merchandising/discount/creating-vouchers.html) or [creating a cart rule](/docs/scos/user/back-office-user-guides/{{page.version}}/merchandising/discount/creating-cart-rules.html).
![Exclusive discount](https://spryker.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docs/Features/Promotions+&+Discounts/Discount/Discount+Feature+Overview/exclusivity.png)

### Exclusive discount

An exclusive discount is a discount that, when applied to a cart, discards all the other discounts applied to it.

{% info_block infoBox "Promotional products and query string" %}

> [Promotional product](#promotional-product) discounts and [query string](#query-string) discounts are separate when it comes to exclusivity. These types of discounts exclude all other discounts only among each other. Promotional product discounts are not affected by exclusive query string discounts, and vice versa.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Promotional product](#promotional-product) discounts and [query string](#query-string) discounts are separate when it comes to exclusivity. These types of discounts exclude all other discounts only among each other. Promotional product discounts are not affected by exclusive query string discounts and vice versa.
```

{% endinfo_block %}

If a cart is eligible for multiple exclusive discounts, you can [prioritize](#discount-priority) the discounts to define which of the exclusive discounts should prevail over the others. See [LINK TO BO GUIDE] for details on how a Back Office user can set priorities for discounts.

If the exclusive discounts are not prioritized or have the same priorities, the highest-value discount is applied. See [Discount calculation logic](#discount-calculation-logic) for details and examples on how the discounts are calculated.

### Non-exclusive discount

> A non-exclusive discount is a discount that can be combined with other non-exclusive discounts in a single order. As all the discounts are non-exclusive, they are applied together. However, a Back Office user can [prioritize](#discount-priority) the non-exclusive discounts to set the order in which they should apply. See [LINK TO BO GUIDE] for details on how a Back Office user can set priorities for discounts. See [Discount calculation logic](#discount-calculation-logic) for details and examples on how the discounts are calculated based on their priorities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A non-exclusive discount is a discount that can be combined with other non-exclusive discounts in a single order. As all the discounts are non-exclusive, they are applied together. However, a Back Office user can [prioritize](#discount-priority) the non-exclusive discounts to set the order in which they should apply. See [LINK TO BO GUIDE] for details on how a Back Office user can prioritize the discounts. See [Discount calculation logic](#discount-calculation-logic) for details and examples on how the discounts are calculated based on their priorities.
```

## Discount validity interval

> Validity interval is a time period during which a discount is active and can be applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validity interval is a period of time during which a discount is active and can be applied.
```

If a cart is eligible for a discount outside of its validity interval, the cart rule is not applied. If a customer enters a voucher code outside of its validity interval, they get a "Your voucher code is invalid." message.

A Back Office user defines calculation when [creating a voucher](/docs/scos/user/back-office-user-guides/{{page.version}}/merchandising/discount/creating-vouchers.html) or [creating a cart rule](/docs/scos/user/back-office-user-guides/{{page.version}}/merchandising/discount/creating-cart-rules.html).
![Validity interval](https://spryker.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/docs/Features/Promotions+&+Discounts/Discount/Discount+Feature+Overview/validity-interval.png)

## Discount priority

> In cases when several discounts can apply to a customer order, a Back Office user can set the discount priorities. The discount priority is an integer value that defines the order in which the discounts are applied. See [Discount calculation logic](#discount-calculation-logic) for details on how discounts are calculated based on their priorities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In cases when several discounts can apply to customer order, a Back Office user can set the discount priorities. The discount priority is an integer value that defines the order in which the discounts are applied. See [Discount calculation logic](#discount-calculation-logic) for details on how discounts are calculated based on their priorities.
```

Discount prioritization behavior does not depend on the [discount type](#discount-types). For example, you might have the following priorities for different types:

* Cart rule discount with priority 1
* Voucher code discount with priority 2
* Voucher code discount with priority 3
* Cart rule discount with priority 4

> In this case, the discounts are applied in the order of priority, irrespective of the type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, discounts are applied based on their priority, regardless of type.
```

{% info_block infoBox "Info" %}

> If you have a voucher code and a cart rule with the same priority, then both discounts should apply and use the same cart subtotal. See [Scenario 5: Non-exclusive, fixed amount and percentage discounts with the same priority values](#scenario-5-non-exclusive-fixed-amount-and-percentage-discounts-with-the-same-priority-values) for an example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a voucher code and a cart rule with the same priority, both discounts should apply and use the same cart subtotal. See [Scenario 5: Non-exclusive, fixed amount and percentage discounts with the same priority values](#scenario-5-non-exclusive-fixed-amount-and-percentage-discounts-with-the-same-priority-values) for an example.
```

{% endinfo_block %} 

## Discount calculation logic

The discount calculation logic follows these rules:

* All discounts are calculated sequentially based on their [priority value](#discount-priority). Thus, discounts with the highest priority value are considered first.
* Discounts without priority values are treated with the last possible priority.

> * Discounts with the same priority value are calculated independent of each other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Discounts with the same priority value are calculated independently.
```

Author: To avoid confusion, I wanted to emphasize that they are calculated independent on each other

<!---source: https://spryker.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DOCS/pages/3019079947/CC-14560+-+Enable+prioritization+for+discounts -->

### Example discount calculation scenarios

The following scenarios illustrate how the discount calculation logic works.

#### Scenario 1: Multiple non-exclusive discounts, mix of fixed amount and percentage discount calculation types.

Cart subtotal: €500

| DISCOUNT NAME|  DESCRIPTION|  DISCOUNT TYPE| DISCOUNT AMOUNT| DISCOUNT PRIORITY| EXCLUSIVENESS|
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |--- |
| HOCKEY10| 10% off your order| Percentage| 10%|  300|  No|
| HELMET20| Save €20 on helmets| Fixed amount| €20|  200|  No|
| STICK50| €50 off all carbon sticks| Fixed amount| €50|  500|  No|

**Discounts applied in priority order:**

1. HELMET20 (200 priority): €500 - €20 = €480
2. HOCKEY10 (300 priority): €480 - €480*0.10 = €432
3. STICK50 (500 priority): €432 - €50 = €382

**Calculation as displayed in cart:**

Subtotal: €500.00
HELMET20: -€20.00
HOCKEY10: -€48.00
STICK50: -€50.00

Grand total: €382.00

{% info_block infoBox "Info" %}

> The assigned priorities can be confusing for customers, as they are not aware of the prioritization. For the scenario above, they might wonder why they get 10% off the pre-discount price of the hockey stick and not, for example, the helmet. Therefore, in the cases like this one, rather than creating prioritization logic for separate discount types, consider adjusting the discount prioritization accordingly to avoid customer confusion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As customers are not aware of the prioritization, they may be confused about the assigned priorities. For the scenario above, they might wonder why they get 10% off the pre-discount price of the hockey stick and not, for example, the helmet. Thus, instead of creating separate prioritization logic for discount types, consider adjusting the discount priority accordingly in cases such as this one to avoid customer confusion.
```
